formal reviews and scrum reflections (#41)
SW705E19/report: sections/discussion/ourprocessreflections.tex

\section{Reflections on our process}

> In \autoref{sec:our-process} we described our process and the things that we used from scrum.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In \autoref{sec:our-process} we described our process and the things that we used from Scrum.
```

> In \autoref{sec:our-process} we described our process and the things that we used from scrum.

Reviewer 2: 'we described the process we used to organize our project workflow and how we incorporated parts of the scrum framework to better fit our project.'

> In this section we reflect on our process, the changes that we had done throughout the semester as well as what we would change for our future projects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this section, we reflect on our process, and how it changed throughout the semester as well as what we would change for our future projects.
```

> In this section we reflect on our process, the changes that we had done throughout the semester as well as what we would change for our future projects.

Reviewer 2: We also reflected on our process,

Author: Den forstår jeg ikke helt

\subsubsection{Scrum}

> Our scrum inspired process worked well with sprints, sprint planning, sprint backlog, product owner, product backlog and product increment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our Scrum inspired process worked well with sprints, sprint planning, sprint backlog, product owner, product backlog and product increment.
```

The elements mentioned in sec:our-process?

We took turns on having the role as PO.

> The PO had the task of planning the next product backlog and add a DoD onto every task in the product backlog.

Reviewer: måske skrive noget med at vi har mikset PO og scrum master rollen til en som går på tur

Reviewer: og hvad en DoD er

The sprint backlog and product backlog can be seen on \autoref{fig:trello-kanban}. 
The leftmost column is the product backlog, the next four column are the sprint backlog.
These are split into \textit{Sprint Backlog}, \textit{In progress}, \textit{In review} and \textit{Done}.
This gives us a better overview on how far people are with their tasks.

\begin{figure}[H]
    \centering
    \includegraphics[width=0.8\linewidth]{figures/trellopicture.PNG}

>     \caption{Our kanban board for the product and sprint backlog on Trello}

Reviewer: kanban er vel ikke en del af scrum?

    \label{fig:trello-kanban}
\end{figure}
\noindent

> When we conducted the sprint planning, we would discuss the every element in the product backlog and estimate how many story points each task should have.

Reviewer: det er vel kun i den proposed sprint backlog? ellers skulle vi gøre det for alle opgaver der findes i vores trello

> When we conducted the sprint planning, we would discuss the every element in the product backlog and estimate how many story points each task should have.

Reviewer 2: we would discuss every task in the

Reviewer 2: how many story points each should have

This gave everyone the same understanding on how the given tasks should be solved and eliminate most ambiguities. 
\\
However, later in the project when we started to develop the application and learning \textit{React}, it started to become less systematic.

> This was often due to it being difficult to estimate how long each task would take to solve.

Reviewer: indtil slutningen? det var nogle uger det var wild west approach, men det er vel tilbage igen

\\\\
We also stopped conducting the retrospective meetings. 

> This could have helped making the project more structured as we could have discussed the problems that we faced and the reasons why we did not complete our tasks in time.

Reviewer: hvad er "this"? og hvorfor stoppede vi med det?

\subsubsection{Formal reviews}

> The formal reviews was something that we changed in the middle of the semester, so that two people had to review a pull request together and not individually.

Reviewer: måske skriv mere eksplicit hvordan det var før

Formal reviews were described in \autoref{sec:formal-reviews}.

> The first hour of every workday was spent on reviewing pull requests.

Reviewer: ??? den første time? er det ikke bare til at alle er igennem?

\\\\

> This increased the quality of the pull requests, as more errors were caught when two people had to debate the code.

Reviewer: måske noget med at det specielt er relevant for større/svære pull requests, hvor det var let at sige "det er nok fint nok"

This is however more time consuming and more difficult to plan.
If two people are in process of reviewing a pull request another person can be waiting for them to finish if they are assigned a pull request with one of them. 

> Then when a pull request have been reviewed and if changes are requested, then these people have to come back to review the changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then when a pull request had been reviewed and if changes were requested, the reviewers would have to come back to review the changes.
```

> To make this more organized a we created a PR spreadsheet to give an better overview of which pull requests you are assigned.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To make this more organized a we created a PR spreadsheet to give an better overview of which pull requests you are assigned to, and who are currently requested to do many or few reviews.
```

> This can be seen on \autoref{fig:trello-kanban}.

Reviewer: forkert figur?

\begin{figure}[H]
    \centering
    \includegraphics[width=\linewidth]{figures/formal-reviews.PNG}
    \caption{Pull request assignment sheet.}

>     \label{fig:trello-kanban}

Reviewer: forkert label?

\end{figure}

\subsubsection{Working from home}
Unlike other semesters, we were not assigned a group room this semester.

> This resulted in us working from home most days in the week, because we thought this would be easier and as productive as if we met on the university.

Reviewer 2: er det ikke 'at the university'?

> After some time we realized that it would be better if we had one workday together every week.

Reviewer: det var nærmest fra starten, også pga vejledermøde

> This was really beneficial as the more experienced react developers were able to help other members that were less experienced.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This was really beneficial as the more experienced React developers were able to help other members that were less experienced.
```

\section{Reflections on our process}
In \autoref{sec:our-process} we described the process we used to organize our project workflow and how we incorporated parts of the scrum framework to better fit our project.
In this section, we reflect on our process and how it changed throughout the semester, as well as what we would change for our future projects.

\subsubsection{Scrum}
Our Scrum inspired process worked well with sprints, sprint planning, sprint backlog, product owner (PO), Scrum Master, planning poker, product backlog and product increment.
We took turns having the role as PO and Scrum Master.
The PO/Scrum Master had the task of planning the next product backlog and adding a DoD (definition of done) onto every task in the product backlog.
This person also had the responsibility of sending material to the supervisor, booking a conference room and conducting planning poker.

> The sprint backlog and product backlog can be seen on \autoref{fig:trello-kanban}. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The sprint backlog and product backlog can be seen on \autoref{fig:trello-board}. 
```

> This is a Kanban board on Trello we use to give an overview of how far people are with their tasks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a board on Trello we use to give an overview of how far people are with their tasks.
```

The leftmost column is the product backlog, the next four columns are the sprint backlog.
These are split into \textit{Sprint Backlog}, \textit{In progress}, \textit{In review} and \textit{Done}.

\begin{figure}[H]
    \centering
    \includegraphics[width=0.8\linewidth]{figures/trellopicture.PNG}

>     \caption{Our kanban board for the product and sprint backlog on Trello}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    \caption{Our to-do board for the product and sprint backlog on Trello}
```

>     \label{fig:trello-kanban}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    \label{fig:trello-board}
```

\end{figure}
\noindent
When we conducted the sprint planning, we would use planning poker to estimate how many story points each task in the proposed sprint backlog should have.
The persons with the highest and lowest story points would discuss the reasoning behind their choice of points.
The story points were often very different if there were ambiguities, and people understood the tasks differently.
This gave everyone the same understanding of how the given tasks should be solved and eliminated most ambiguities. 
\\

> However, in the middle of the project when we started to develop the application and learning \textit{React}, the process started to become less systematic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, as the project progressed and we started to develop the application and learning \textit{React}, the process started to become less systematic.
```

This was often due to it being difficult to estimate how long each task would take to solve.
When we got more familiar with \textit{React} we were able to estimate how much the tasks would take, and the process got more systematic again.
\\\\
We also stopped conducting the retrospective meetings.
The Scrum Masters stopped enforcing the retrospective meetings so they started fading out.

> These meetings could have helped make the project more structured as we could have discussed the problems that we faced and the reasons why we did not complete our tasks in time.

Reviewer: Måske nævne med at ting der ikke blev færdige stadig er i backlog, så den bare blev ved med at vokse.

\section{Reflections on our process}

> In \autoref{sec:our-process} we described the process we used to organize our project workflow and how we incorporated parts of the scrum framework to better fit our project

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In \autoref{sec:our-process} we described the process we used to organize our project workflow and how we incorporated parts of the scrum framework to better fit our project.
```

> In this section, we reflect on our process, and how it changed throughout the semester as well as what we would change for our future projects.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In this section, we reflect on our process and how it changed throughout the semester, as well as what we would change for our future projects.
```

\subsubsection{Scrum}

> Our Scrum inspired process worked well with sprints, sprint planning, sprint backlog, product owner, Scrum Master, planning poker, product backlog and product increment.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Our Scrum inspired process worked well with sprints, sprint planning, sprint backlog, product owner (PO), Scrum Master, planning poker, product backlog and product increment.
```

> We took turns on having the role as PO and Scrum Master.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We took turns having the role as PO and Scrum Master.
```

> The PO/Scrum Master had the task of planning the next product backlog and add a DoD (definition of done) onto every task in the product backlog.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The PO/Scrum Master had the task of planning the next product backlog and adding a DoD (definition of done) onto every task in the product backlog.
```

> This person also had the responsibility to send material to the supervisor, book a conference room and responsible for the planning poker.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This person also had the responsibility of sending material to the supervisor, booking a conference room and conducting planning poker.
```

The sprint backlog and product backlog can be seen on \autoref{fig:trello-kanban}. 

> This is an kanban board on Trello we use to give an overview of how far people are with their tasks.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This is a Kanban board on Trello we use to give an overview of how far people are with their tasks.
```

> The leftmost column is the product backlog, the next four column are the sprint backlog.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The leftmost column is the product backlog, the next four columns are the sprint backlog.
```

These are split into \textit{Sprint Backlog}, \textit{In progress}, \textit{In review} and \textit{Done}.

\begin{figure}[H]
    \centering
    \includegraphics[width=0.8\linewidth]{figures/trellopicture.PNG}
    \caption{Our kanban board for the product and sprint backlog on Trello}
    \label{fig:trello-kanban}
\end{figure}
\noindent
When we conducted the sprint planning, we would use planning poker to estimate how many story points each task in the proposed sprint backlog should have.

> The persons with the highest and lowest story points would discuss the reasoning behind it.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The persons with the highest and lowest story points would discuss the reasoning behind their choice of points.
```

The story points were often very different if there were ambiguities, and people understood the tasks differently.

> This gave everyone the same understanding on how the given tasks should be solved and eliminate most ambiguities. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This gave everyone the same understanding of how the given tasks should be solved and eliminated most ambiguities. 
```

\\

> However, in the middle of the project when we started to develop the application and learning \textit{React}, it started to become less systematic.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
However, in the middle of the project when we started to develop the application and learning \textit{React}, the process started to become less systematic.
```

This was often due to it being difficult to estimate how long each task would take to solve.

> When we got more familiar with \textit{React} we were able to estimate how much the tasks took, and it got more systematic again.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When we got more familiar with \textit{React} we were able to estimate how much the tasks would take, and the process got more systematic again.
```

\\\\
We also stopped conducting the retrospective meetings.
The Scrum Masters stopped enforcing the retrospective meetings so they started fading out.

> These meetings could have helped making the project more structured as we could have discussed the problems that we faced and the reasons why we did not complete our tasks in time.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
These meetings could have helped make the project more structured as we could have discussed the problems that we faced and the reasons why we did not complete our tasks in time.
```

\subsubsection{Formal reviews}

> The formal reviews was something that we changed in the middle of the semester, so that two people had to review a pull request together.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The formal reviews were something that we changed in the middle of the semester, so that two people had to review a pull request together.
```

> Previously people would review a pull request individually.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Previously, people would review a pull request individually.
```

Formal reviews were described in \autoref{sec:formal-reviews}.
The first part of every workday was spent on reviewing pull requests until all pull requests were reviewed.
\\\\
This increased the quality of the pull requests, as more errors were caught when two people had to debate the code.

> This was especially important for big or difficult pull requests as it otherwise would be easy to just approve the pull request than to actually try and understand every part of it.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This was especially important for big or difficult pull requests as it otherwise would be easier to just approve the pull request than to actually try and understand every part of it.
```

> This is however more time consuming and more difficult to plan.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This is more time consuming and more difficult to plan, however.
```

> If two people are in process of reviewing a pull request another person can be waiting for them to finish if they are assigned a pull request with one of them. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If two people are in process of reviewing a pull request another person can be waiting for them to finish if they are assigned another pull request with one of them. 
```

> Then when a pull request had been reviewed and if changes are requested, then these people had to come back to review the changes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When a pull request had been reviewed and changes were requested, the reviewers had to come back to review the changes made by the author.
```

> To make this more organized a we created a PR spreadsheet to give an better overview of which pull requests you are assigned to, and who are currently requested to do many or few reviews.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To make this more organized we created a PR spreadsheet to give a better overview of which pull requests the developers were assigned to, and who was requested to do many or few reviews.
```

This can be seen on \autoref{fig:formal-reviews}.
\begin{figure}[H]
    \centering
    \includegraphics[width=\linewidth]{figures/formal-reviews.PNG}
    \caption{Pull request assignment sheet.}
    \label{fig:formal-reviews}
\end{figure}

\subsubsection{Working from home}
Unlike other semesters, we were not assigned a group room this semester.

> This resulted in us working from home most days in the week, because we thought this would be easier and as productive as if we met at the university.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This resulted in us working from home most days of the week, because we thought this would be easier and as productive as if we met at the university.
```

> One of the cons of working from home is that it is more difficult to get help from the other group members and this can lead people to get stuck on tasks.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
One of the cons of working from home is that it is more difficult to get help from the other group members, which can lead to people getting stuck on tasks.
```

After a few weeks we realized that it would be better if we had one workday together every week.
This was really beneficial as the more experienced React developers were able to help other members that were less experienced.

> It was also easier to conduct a sprint planning when we met in person.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It was also easier to conduct sprint planning when we met in person.
```

\subsubsection{Supervisor meetings}
The day before the supervisor meeting we sent the report, a reading guide and an agenda for the meeting.

> Our supervisor gave feedback on the material that we sent to her and during the meeting we presented the things that we had done the previous week.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Our supervisor gave feedback on the material that we sent to her, and during the meeting we presented the things that we had done the previous week.
```

> These meetings have been longer than the meetings we had previously experienced in last semesters, but this also resulted in better feedback, as the questions she asked made us reflect on certain choices we had made.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
These meetings have been longer than the meetings we had previously experienced in previous semesters, but this also resulted in better feedback, as the questions she asked made us reflect on certain choices we had made.
```

\subsubsection{What we would do differently}
One of the problems that we faced was that people could get stuck on tasks.

> For future projects we would try to be more aware of where people are in the process, so that it would be easier to help them with solving their tasks.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For future projects we will try to be more aware of where people are in the process, so that it would be easier to help them with solving their tasks.
```

> One of the solutions to this could be daily standups, so that we are aware of where people are with their tasks, and which once they have not completed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
One of the solutions to this could be daily standups, so that we are aware of where people are with their tasks, and which ones they have not completed.
```

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

Another solution could be to have more workdays at the university, so that people have an easier time getting help from one another.
It is especially important in the beginning of the semester when there are still a lot of ambiguities and uncertainties with the project.  

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> We would also like to hold the retrospective meeting so that we had to reflect on the previous week and correcting the problems that we faced.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We would also like to hold the retrospective meeting so that we had to reflect on the previous week and correct the problems that we faced.
```

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> When adding tasks to the product backlog it should also be a requirement to add a DoD, as we multiple times were unable to recognize what needed to be done from just the title.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When adding tasks to the product backlog it should also be a requirement to add a DoD, since we experienced being unable to recognize what needed to be done from just the title.
```
